the coconut rhinoceros beetle is an
invasive pest and it came to Guam and
has been devastating the palm trees in
Guam a big concern is it may go to
California and devastate the citrus
industry because they eat citrus fruits
so they like to stop it in Hawaii before
it's too late
the difficulty is it's very difficult to
know where these beetles come from where
they track them so I've been working on
being able to detect them acoustically
so can we understand what their signals
are in terms of their acoustic wingbeat
detect them classify them and perhaps
track them all the work is done in a
quarantine area so it's very secure
actually more secure than most military
bases at the University of WA canvas so
there's a colony of these things kind of
like alien where they're trying to stay
the colony of the the creatures there
we've used acoustic microphone array
which is a set of microphones sink
together and then we've ground truth tit
with optical acoustic sensor which other
people have used and then also the
high-speed camera for a small segment so
we're able to get their wingbeat
frequencies and typically the adult
males that's around 45 to 50 Hertz we'd
like to be able to monitor multiple so
it's it's you can't just dig around and
do that and that's what large crews the
state of Hawaii is spending so if we can
put a passive acoustic sensors perhaps
at night we can detect that they're
flying in there or we can do it from a
trap coming out of mulch piles
monitoring to see where they fly out at
night you'll have some idea of their
dispersal pad
you